Dedicated v1 write (#4873)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/primers/api/v1/_index.md

- [Authenticate with a username and password scheme](#authenticate-with-a-username-and-password-scheme)
- [Authenticate using the Authorization Token scheme](#authenticate-with-the-token-scheme)

### Authenticate with a username and password scheme

With the InfluxDB v1 API, you can use the InfluxDB 1.x convention of
username and password to authenticate database reads and writes by passing a
[database token](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/get-started/setup/#create-a-database-token)
as the `password` credential.

> When authenticating requests to the v1 API `/write` and `/query` endpoints, InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated checks that `password` (`p`) is an authorized database token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When authenticating requests to the v1 API `/write` and `/query` endpoints, InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated checks that `password` (`p`) is an authorized [database token](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/admin/tokens/).
```

### Write using Telegraf

If have existing v1 workloads that use Telegraf,
you can use the [InfluxDB v1.x `outputs.influxdb` plugin](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/blob/release-1.26/plugins/outputs/influxdb/README.md) to write data.
To configure the v1.x output plugin for writing to InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated,
make the following changes to your `outputs.influxdb` configuration:

Parameter                | Ignored                  | Value
-------------------------|--------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
`database`               | Honored                  | Database name
`retention_policy`       | Honored, but discouraged | [Duration](/influxdb/cloud-iox/reference/glossary/#duration)
`username`               | Ignored                  | String or empty
`password`               | Honored                  | [Database token](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/get-started/setup/#create-a-database-token) with permission to write to the database
`content_encoding`       | Honored                  | `gzip` (compressed data) or `identity` (uncompressed)

> `skip_database_creation` | Ignored                  | N/A (see how to [create a database](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/get-started/setup/#create-a-database))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`skip_database_creation` | Ignored                  | N/A (see how to [create a database](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/admin/databases/create/))
```

[Node.js](#nodejs)
[Python](#python)
{{% /code-tabs %}}
{{% code-tab-content %}}
<!-- Start NodeJS -->

Instantiate a [node-influx](/influxdb/v1.7/tools/api_client_libraries/#javascriptnodejs) client for writing to InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated v1 API:

```js
const Influx = require('influx')

// Instantiate a client for writing to InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated v1 API
const client = new Influx.InfluxDB({
  host: 'cloud2.influxdata.com',
  port: 443,
  protocol: 'https'
  database: 'DATABASE_NAME',
  username: '',
  password: 'DATABASE_TOKEN'
})
```
<!-- End NodeJS -->
{{% /code-tab-content %}}
{{% code-tab-content %}}
<!-- Start Python -->

Instantiate an [influxdb-python](/influxdb/v1.7/tools/api_client_libraries/#python) client for writing to the InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated v1 API:

```py
from influxdb import InfluxDBClient

# Instantiate a client for writing to InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated v1 API
client = InfluxDBClient(
  host='cloud2.influxdata.com',
  ssl=True,
  database='DATABASE_NAME',
  username='',
  password='DATABASE_TOKEN')
```
<!-- End Python -->
{{% /code-tab-content %}}
{{< /code-tabs-wrapper >}}

Replace the following:

- **`DATABASE_NAME`**: your InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated database

> - **`DATABASE_TOKEN`**: a [database token](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/get-started/setup/#create-a-database-token) with sufficient permissions to the database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`DATABASE_TOKEN`**: a [database token](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/admin/tokens/) with sufficient permissions to the database
```

### Write using HTTP clients

Use HTTP clients and your custom code to send write requests to the v1 API `/write` endpoint.

> {{% api-endpoint endpoint="http://localhost:8086/write" method="post"%}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% api-endpoint endpoint="https://cloud2.influxdata.com/write" method="post"%}}
```

Include the following in your request:

- A `db` query string parameter with the name of the database to write to.
- A request body that contains a string of data in [line protocol](/influxdb/cloud-iox/reference/syntax/line-protocol/) syntax.

> - A [database token](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/get-started/setup/#create-a-database-token) in one of the following authentication schemes: [Basic authentication](#basic-authentication), [query string authentication](#query-string-authentication), or [`Token` authentication](#authenticate-with-the-token-scheme).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A [database token](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/admin/tokens/) in one of the following authentication schemes: [Basic authentication](#basic-authentication), [query string authentication](#query-string-authentication), or [`Token` authentication](#authenticate-with-the-token-scheme).
```

    --data-binary 'home,room=kitchen temp=72 1463683075'
```

Replace the following:

- **`DATABASE_NAME`**: your InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated database

> - **`DATABASE_TOKEN`**: a [database token](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/get-started/setup/#create-a-database-token) with sufficient permissions to the database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`DATABASE_TOKEN`**: a [database token](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/admin/tokens/) with sufficient permissions to the database
```
